
# Notes from Model-T meeting on August 20, 2020

## Participants:

* Colin Perkins
* Jari Arkko
* Mark McFaddedn
* Dominique Lazanski
* Tommy C
* Ira McDonald
* Wendy Selzer
* Martin Thomson
* Joe Salowey
* Russ Housley
* Jeffrey Yasskin
* Sam Weiler (joined late)
* Mallory Knodel (joined late)
* EKR (joined late)

## Roundtable from participants

Some recent discussion on the list on various documents. Roundtable in the room to get further input on the topic:

* Colin here to observe the discussions.
* Dominique thanked for comments she has received on documents.
* Ira introduced himself as a consultant for Toyota, and said that he'd be observing, and reading documents.
* Jeffrey said that he is working on the privacy threat model that Sam had mentioned in a previous call.
* Christian indicated that he had been participating the work since the start.
* Joe said  that he's catching on what the discussions are.
* Mark said that he has two drafts, one on changes to threat model, and another new draft on word counts in security considerations sections since 2003 (draft-mcfadden-smart-rfc3552-textual-research-02.txt).
* Martin has a draft which received some some discussion after it was published, no discussion since that.
* Russ has been following, nothing new to report
* Tommy has been following since the beginning, also interested in how can NCSC bring their work to useful to us here.
* Jari was interested in breaking down the problem space (and documents) to suitable pieces and moving on.  Divide and conquer, document issues in IAB documents separately from BCP 72 updates? Jari also wanted to focus the documents on crisper parts, rather than documenting everything. See message here: https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/model-t/6ZbZGsNsvxynIi4usJp-4Snw7l4/
* Stephen had a family issue and was unable to join.

## Discussion

Mark two-prong approach is a good one. We have a lot of input on how BCP 72 doesn't match today's reality. Good result for the IAB and IETF. I don't think we are in a position to offer update to BCP 72 yet. We're not even close.

Dominique supports the two-prong approach. We have quite a lot of content. Agree with need for focus from jari's comments. agree that we're not quite at the point of an update to bcp 72. we are at a point where we are gathering and consolidating informatio.

Christian believed that having a taxonomy of threats is a really good idea. He likes Dominiques's draft. Too much of current threat model is addressing direct communication between two parties. And not looking at network effects is a bad idea. Little details on Dominique's draft would like to see expanded. Later we should do taxonomy of defenses.

Martin voiced a couple of questions: There's a broad spectrum of threats we've documented. Martin's question is what does the IETF do with some of these. important to understand what happens. But the protocol design impacts are less clear. Christian agreed with that but that's why should have a 2-step approach. Jari agreed that the questions are good, but the first step is understanding. We need to do that before knowing whether we can or need to act, or not.

Christian: there's something that Martin said abut privacy that is important (note taker did not catch this). Security and privacy benefit from each other.

Mark followed up on what Martin said. But how far do you go? We only go in as far as threats have been taken into account in protocol design. We need to tell  the designers, guide their protocol design. They have to decide what things they can impact. Martin responded that Mark had basically hit it there.

Tommy said that he thinks that's right. Lifting and classifying threats is important. We may not know yet as protocol designers what effect that may have. we may not be able to do much, but it would be unwise to be ignorant of those threats. Sometimes protocol design can have a big impact.

Martin's 2nd question was if we can we do Christian's 2-step approach and do a trial run with it? Christian said that we should definitely have a draft on this before the next meeting (a specific example missed by the note taker). Mark a possible direction for the working group is  to find an editing team and attempt to do what Martin suggested. Possibly unified set of people. Jari liked it.

Martin: specific problem doesn't matter. I'd like to have an example of a concrete problem and documenting how we define  the issue, how we'd provide information to protocol designers, and then how to take that into account in protocol design. And then bring back to model-t.

Discussio about establishing an editing team that would look at the details. Christian said that we should take a specific problem, look at mitigations, look how they can
be applied, look for what more we can do.

Russ, Dominique and Jari volunteered to help.

Next steps:

* setup team to do the concrete exercise
* reviews and discussion on list
* call late sept?
