
# MODEL-T CALL, 2020-02-14 UTC 1600

Webex link: https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=m82d465ac757384fd12c9cac951c34026

Note taker(s):

* Ted Hardie
* Jari Arkko for conversion  to markdown
* Anyone else who helped: just add your name    

The attendees were:
    
*  Stephen Farrell (in as lake wg)
*  Jari Arkko
*  Ted Hardie
*  Mark McFadden
*  Marco Tiloca
*  Dominique Lazanski
*  Rikard Hoglund (apologies for ascii)
*  Russ Housley
*  Chris Wood
*  Randy Bush
*  Dirk Kutscher
*  Joachim Fabini aka jo
*  ("Core WG" =) Carsten Bormann
*  Ali Rezaki
*  Colin Perkins
*  Robin Wilton
*  Vittoria Bertola
*  Mirja Kuhlewind
*  Eric Rescolra aka  Call-in-user3
*  Jim Fenton
*  Wes Hardaker
*  Diego Lopez

## Agenda:

* Introduction (Stephen)
* Getting organised as an IAB program (Jari)
* Technical discussion (all)
* Any other business

## Introduction (Stephen)

Stephen introduced the meeting and added that note well applies: https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/ This was discussed.

Agenda bashing offered, declined.

Recap and discussion of how to progress the work.

## Getting organised as an IAB program (Jari)

Discussion of how to increase awareness of the effort, and a bit unclear who should call for the effort.

Jari and Stephen discussed, agreed with IAB to continue with exploratory mode, but to get a bit of organization by making an IAB program.  Charter after initial discussions at https://github.com/intarchboard/model-t-charter

Jari reviewed the charter, which doesn't direct the IETF to do anything, but does examine BCP 72 and call attention to different issues for protocol designers.

This is an open program, open to any interested party.

## Technical discussion (all)

This was expected to cover:
* analysis of threats
* recommendations for threat model update
* other issues
* draft updates, including draft-arkko-farrell-arch-model-t-02 (Stephen)

Notes from the discussion:

Robin: might have to make it clear what we mean by "trust" for endpoints (in docs), "trust for attribute X" (suggests Randy)

Ekr: what's new here (in terms of threat model)?

After a brief discussion of what updates are in scope, the group returned to the structural questions, noting that a meeting had been requested for Vancouver.

Dirk suggests that possibly focusing the effort on updating BCP 72 is not the right thing to do.  The threats are not communications security, but about endpoints not doing what the user expects; it could be productive to articulate those threats more.  Jari replied that was largely the plan, and that maybe discussion of where the analysis goes was obscuring that the focus should be on the *analysis*.  Ekr suggests an example--the rise of commercial surveillance via web tracking.  There was a brief discussion of how much this was actually new to the commsec community and whether the analysis or an update was the focus.

Returning to the administration, Stephen discussed potential outputs.  Initially, the documents would be independent and then look at merging.  Amendment to shift to description of "threat environment" and not so much the "threat model".

Wes: suggests re-ordering bullets and phasing work some

Ekr: volunteered to write up how to reason about security in protocols; Chris Wood will help.

Volunteering: Mark, Dominique, Ali each agreed to update their work as cited in the slides, as did Stephen and Jari.

Jim Fenton:  I would like the security sections should not have new normative requirements, but should have descriptions.  Ekr that's probably right, but an IESG issue. Several others agreeing.

WRT routing: Ted suggested some possibly exlpanatory text about different routing planes; Russ/Randy commented and we all worried that routing security may be screwed;-(

Robin brought up the phones-in-handcart/google-maps thing; Carsten generalised to physical things causing such effects.

Robin suggested that the group could look at the information-centric or content-centric network threat analysis, to see if there issues they cover that standard models do not.

Dirk responded by saying that you could ask whether a more "empowered" forwarding plane solves or creates new issues.

Stephen asked whether privacy should be an initial focus of the group; Wes responded that there were enough things on the plate now and that pulling the privacy work in right now would make it hard to complete.

Robin then suggested keeping one eye on security and one on "trust" and that gave the opportunity to work on privacy later on.

Ali said that "privacy" is a huge scope but that for protocol designers, the focus on data minimization (in both collection and generation) could use increased emphasis (it's in there now, but could get additional emphasis).

## Any other business

Notes from the discussion:

Meeting in Vancouver - 60 or 90 minute session?  After a short discussion, the group agreed to update session request to 90 minutes. 

Stephen noted that the I-D cutoff for Vancouver is: 2020-03-09 (Monday): Internet Draft submission cut-off (for all drafts, including -00) by UTC 23:59. There was a request to get updates before Vancouver meeting.
        
